Improve and correct supported technologies (#2742)
elastic/apm-agent-dotnet: docs/reference/supported-technologies.md

Reviewer: We need to add a description to the frontmatter:
```
description: "Compatibility matrix listing the frameworks, runtimes, data access libraries, and messaging systems supported by the Elastic APM Agent for .NET, with supported version ranges and installation methods."
```

Optionally, you could add `type: overview` as well, but that's not absolutely necessary.

# Supported technologies [supported-technologies]

This page details the technologies the APM Agent for .NET supports, the package or runtime versions we test, and which installation methods work for each one. Versions beyond the listed upper bound have not been tested and are not supported, but might work.

Use this page as a compatibility matrix:

1. Find the framework or library you use.
2. Check that your package or runtime version falls within the supported range.
3. Check the installation method you plan to use: Profiler, NuGet, or OpenTelemetry Bridge.
4. Read any footnotes or notes directly below that table for important limitations or setup requirements.

If you are already using OpenTelemetry, consider the [EDOT .NET SDK](elastic-otel-dotnet://reference/edot-dotnet/index.md) for traces, metrics, and logs. It covers many of the same technologies (and more) and integrates naturally with Elastic's observability platform.

## Supported .NET runtimes [supported-dotnet-runtimes]

The APM Agent for .NET libraries and components target .NET Standard 2.0 or .NET Standard 2.1.

> We support .NET runtimes ≤10.0.x and .NET Framework runtimes from 4.6.2 to 4.8.1 for as long as they receive active support from Microsoft per the [.NET support policy](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/platform/support/policy/dotnet-core) and [.NET Framework support policy](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/platform/support/policy/dotnet-framework). When Microsoft ends support for a runtime version, we do too. Issues reported against unsupported runtimes will not be acted on unless they also affect a supported runtime.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We support .NET runtimes ≤10.0.x and .NET Framework runtimes from 4.6.2 to 4.8.1 for as long as they receive active support from Microsoft per the [.NET support policy](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/platform/support/policy/dotnet-core) and [.NET Framework support policy](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/platform/support/policy/dotnet-framework). When Microsoft ends support for a runtime version, so does Elastic. Issues reported against unsupported runtimes will only be acted on if they also affect a supported runtime.
```

::::{warning}
Native AOT is not supported. The agent relies on reflection, runtime IL emit, and embedded libraries that are incompatible with AOT compilation. Attempting to use the agent in a Native AOT-published application will fail at runtime.
::::

::::{note}
On .NET Framework, we strongly recommend at least .NET Framework 4.7.2 because of binding issues introduced by Microsoft.
::::

## Installation methods [supported-installation-methods]

> Each table below shows which installation methods apply to each technology. A checkmark (✓) means the technology is supported via that installation method for the listed version range; a cross (✗) means it is not supported via that method. Where a cell shows a version qualifier such as `(≥3.7.0)`, only that narrower range is covered by that method.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each table below shows which installation methods apply to each technology. A checkmark (✓) means the technology is supported with that installation method for the listed version range; a cross (✗) means it is not supported using that method. Where a cell shows a version qualifier such as `(≥3.7.0)`, only that narrower range is covered by that method.
```

::::{note}

> The **OpenTelemetry Bridge** column requires .NET 8+ and APM Server ≥7.16. A checkmark there means the technology is covered through the built-in OpenTelemetry Bridge, whether the agent was installed via the Profiler or a NuGet package.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **OpenTelemetry Bridge** column requires .NET 8+ and APM Server ≥7.16. A checkmark there means the technology is covered through the built-in OpenTelemetry Bridge, whether the agent was installed using the Profiler or a NuGet package.
```

| **NuGet** | Install the linked integration NuGet package alongside the core `Elastic.Apm` package and add the setup call to application startup. |
| **OpenTelemetry Bridge** | The library emits native [OpenTelemetry](https://opentelemetry.io/) spans that the agent captures through its built-in [OpenTelemetry Bridge](/reference/opentelemetry-bridge.md). |

## Web frameworks [supported-web-frameworks]

For supported web frameworks, the agent creates one transaction per incoming request and names it after the registered route.

| Framework | Supported versions | [Profiler](/reference/setup-auto-instrumentation.md) | NuGet | OpenTelemetry Bridge |
| --- | --- | :---: | :---: | :---: |
| ASP.NET Core<br>{applies_to}`apm_agent_dotnet: ga 1.0` | ≥8.0.0<br>≤10.0.x | [✓ ¹](/reference/setup-auto-instrumentation.md) | [✓](/reference/setup-asp-net-core.md) | ✗ |
| ASP.NET (.NET Framework) in IIS<br>{applies_to}`apm_agent_dotnet: ga 1.1` | 4.6.2–4.8.1 (IIS 10) | [✓](/reference/setup-auto-instrumentation.md) | [✓](/reference/setup-asp-dot-net.md) | ✗ |

> ¹ Via startup hook on .NET.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
¹ Using a startup hook on .NET.
```

The profiler does not support the Web Garden (multi-worker process) mode of IIS.
::::

## RPC frameworks [supported-rpc-frameworks]

For supported gRPC frameworks, the agent automatically captures both client-side and server-side calls.

Streaming is not supported - the agent does not create transactions or spans for streaming calls automatically.

| Framework | Supported versions | [Profiler](/reference/setup-auto-instrumentation.md) | NuGet | OpenTelemetry Bridge |
| --- | --- | :---: | :---: | :---: |
| gRPC server (ASP.NET Core)<br>{applies_to}`apm_agent_dotnet: ga 1.7` | ≥8.0.0<br>≤10.0.x | [✓ ¹](/reference/setup-auto-instrumentation.md) | [✓](/reference/setup-asp-net-core.md) | ✗ |
| gRPC client<br>`Grpc.Net.Client`<br>{applies_to}`apm_agent_dotnet: ga 1.7` | ≥2.23.2<br><3.0.0 | [✓ ¹](/reference/setup-auto-instrumentation.md) | [✓](/reference/setup-grpc.md) | [✓ (≥2.57.0)](/reference/opentelemetry-bridge.md) |

> ¹ Via startup hook on .NET.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
¹ Using a startup hook on .NET.
```

| MySQL<br>`MySql.Data`<br>{applies_to}`apm_agent_dotnet: ga 1.12` | ≥6.7.0<br><9.0.0 | [✓](/reference/setup-auto-instrumentation.md) | ✗ | ✗ |
| Oracle<br>`Oracle.ManagedDataAccess`<br>{applies_to}`apm_agent_dotnet: ga 1.12` | ≥12.2.1100<br><22.0.0 | [✓](/reference/setup-auto-instrumentation.md) | ✗ | ✗ |
| Oracle<br>`Oracle.ManagedDataAccess.Core`<br>{applies_to}`apm_agent_dotnet: ga 1.12` | ≥2.0.0<br><4.0.0 | [✓](/reference/setup-auto-instrumentation.md) | ✗ | ✗ |
| PostgreSQL<br>`Npgsql`<br>{applies_to}`apm_agent_dotnet: ga 1.12` | ≥4.0.0<br><8.0.0 | [✓](/reference/setup-auto-instrumentation.md) | ✗ | ✗ |
| Redis<br>`StackExchange.Redis`<br>{applies_to}`apm_agent_dotnet: ga 1.8` | ≥2.0.495<br><3.0.0 | ✗ | [✓ ²](/reference/setup-stackexchange-redis.md) | ✗ |
| MS SQL<br>`System.Data.SqlClient`<br>{applies_to}`apm_agent_dotnet: ga 1.0` | ≥4.0.0<br><5.0.0 | [✓](/reference/setup-auto-instrumentation.md) | [✓](/reference/setup-sqlclient.md) | ✗ |
| MS SQL<br>`Microsoft.Data.SqlClient`<br>{applies_to}`apm_agent_dotnet: ga 1.0` | ≥1.0.0<br><6.0.0 | [✓](/reference/setup-auto-instrumentation.md) | [✓](/reference/setup-sqlclient.md) | ✗ |

> | SQLLite<br>`Microsoft.Data.Sqlite`<br>{applies_to}`apm_agent_dotnet: ga 1.12` | ≥2.0.0<br><9.0.0 | [✓](/reference/setup-auto-instrumentation.md) | ✗ | ✗ |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| SQLite<br>`Microsoft.Data.Sqlite`<br>{applies_to}`apm_agent_dotnet: ga 1.12` | ≥2.0.0<br><9.0.0 | [✓](/reference/setup-auto-instrumentation.md) | ✗ | ✗ |
```

> | SQLLite<br>`System.Data.SQLite`<br>{applies_to}`apm_agent_dotnet: ga 1.12` | ≥1.0.0<br><3.0.0 | [✓](/reference/setup-auto-instrumentation.md) | ✗ | ✗ |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| SQLite<br>`System.Data.SQLite`<br>{applies_to}`apm_agent_dotnet: ga 1.12` | ≥1.0.0<br><3.0.0 | [✓](/reference/setup-auto-instrumentation.md) | ✗ | ✗ |
```

> ¹ Via startup hook on .NET.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
¹ Using a startup hook on .NET.
```

::::{note}
`Microsoft.Azure.DocumentDB.Core` and `Microsoft.Azure.DocumentDB` are deprecated. The recommended replacement is the `Microsoft.Azure.Cosmos` package.

`Elastic.Clients.Elasticsearch` emits native OpenTelemetry spans. The legacy (deprecated) `Elasticsearch.Net` and `NEST` clients use a `DiagnosticSource`-based subscriber instead.

`MongoDB.Driver` ≥3.7.0 emits native OpenTelemetry spans. When running without the NuGet package (profiler-only install), these are captured automatically by the OpenTelemetry Bridge.
::::

## Messaging systems [supported-messaging-systems]

| Messaging system | Supported versions | [Profiler](/reference/setup-auto-instrumentation.md) | NuGet | OpenTelemetry Bridge |
| --- | --- | :---: | :---: | :---: |
| Azure Service Bus<br>`Azure.Messaging.ServiceBus`<br>{applies_to}`apm_agent_dotnet: ga 1.10` | ≥7.0.0<br><8.0.0 | [✓](/reference/setup-auto-instrumentation.md) | [✓](/reference/setup-azure-servicebus.md) | [✓](/reference/opentelemetry-bridge.md) |
| Azure Service Bus (legacy)<br>`Microsoft.Azure.ServiceBus`<br>{applies_to}`apm_agent_dotnet: ga 1.10` | ≥3.0.0<br><6.0.0 | ✗ | [✓](/reference/setup-azure-servicebus.md) | ✗ |

> | Kafka<br>`Confluent.Kafka`<br>{applies_to}`apm_agent_dotnet: ga 1.12` | ≥1.4.0<br><3.0.0 | [✓](/reference/setup-auto-instrumentation.md) | ✗ | [✓ via adapter ¹](/reference/setup-kafka.md) |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Kafka<br>`Confluent.Kafka`<br>{applies_to}`apm_agent_dotnet: ga 1.12` | ≥1.4.0<br><3.0.0 | [✓](/reference/setup-auto-instrumentation.md) | ✗ | [✓ using an adapter ¹](/reference/setup-kafka.md) |
```

::::{note}
`Azure.Messaging.ServiceBus` emits native OpenTelemetry spans. When using the profiler without the NuGet package, the OpenTelemetry Bridge captures them automatically. When the NuGet package is installed, the dedicated subscriber takes precedence to prevent duplicate spans.

The legacy `Microsoft.Azure.ServiceBus` package does not emit native OpenTelemetry spans and requires the NuGet package.
::::

## Azure Functions [supported-azure-functions]

For supported Azure Functions hosting models, the agent creates one transaction per HTTP-triggered invocation.

| Hosting model | Supported versions | [Profiler](/reference/setup-auto-instrumentation.md) | NuGet | OpenTelemetry Bridge |
| --- | --- | :---: | :---: | :---: |
| Azure Functions isolated worker<br>`Microsoft.Azure.Functions.Worker`<br>{applies_to}`apm_agent_dotnet: ga 1.19` | ≥2.0.0<br><3.0.0 | ✗ | [✓](/reference/setup-azure-functions.md) | ✗ |
| Azure Functions in-process<br>`Microsoft.Azure.Functions.Extensions`<br>{applies_to}`apm_agent_dotnet: ga 1.24` | ≥1.1.0<br><2.0.0 | ✗ | [✓](/reference/setup-azure-functions.md) | ✗ |

::::{note}

> Only HTTP-triggered invocations are traced. System metrics are not collected because of a concern with unintentionally increasing Azure Functions costs on Consumption plans.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Only HTTP-triggered invocations are traced. To avoid unintentionally increasing Azure Functions costs on Consumption plans, system metrics are not collected.
```
